readme.md, before:

# Programmes Plant

The Programmes Plant is part of the [XCRI-CAP project](http://www.kent.ac.uk/is/projects/xcri/) at the University of Kent, and is a replacement for the existing Programmes Factory.

It is written in [Laravel3](http://three.laravel.com/) and using [Twitter Bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/).

![Programmes plant homepage screenshot](https://raw.github.com/unikent/programmes-plant/master/screenshot.jpg "Programmes plant homepage screenshot")

## Usage
Please refer to the current [brand guidelines](https://www.kent.ac.uk/brand) for use of the existing brand.

## Build Status

[![Build Status - master](https://travis-ci.org/unikent/programmes-plant.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/unikent/programmes-plant) `master` 

[![Build Status - develop](https://travis-ci.org/unikent/programmes-plant.png?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/unikent/programmes-plant) `develop`

## Development Setup

The following are instructions on running the Programmes Plant on a local machine for development.

### Method 1

Install this in one line? Why of course! Should work on any sensible Unix like system with Git installed.

```shell
curl -s https://raw.github.com/unikent/programmes-plant/setup/setup.sh > temp.sh && sh temp.sh && rm temp.sh
```

### Method 2

1. Clone this repository. Change into the directory.

2. Obtain Laravel as a submodule by running `git submodule init` then `git submodule update`, unless you have done a recursive clone. Note that this app uses the [University of Kent Laravel fork](https://github.com/unikent/laravel.git), because this contains important performance enhancements as yet not pulled into the Laravel core. This fork is generally kept up to date with the Laravel master branch, so including it as a submodule should give you the latest version of Laravel. We also use the [Verify Laravel bundle](https://github.com/Toddish/Verify) as a sub-module but maintain our own fork.

3. Install [Composer](http://getcomposer.org/) and run `composer.phar install --dev` to install dependencies.

4. You need to setup the application by editing all the sample files in `config/` and moving them to `config/local/` filling in as appropriate. To move the files in one command, run:
```shell
mkdir application/config/local && cp application/config/*.sample application/config/local && ls application/config/local/*.sample | while read file; do mv $file  `echo $file | sed s/.sample//`; done
```

5. You will need to create a MySQL database. Create this database and add the credentials to `application/config/local/database.php`.

6. The application requires an authentication driver to be used. The details of this can be setup in `application/config/local/auth.php`. We use our own LDAP Verify driver. If you decide to use our bundled LDAP Verify driver, the server settings can go in `application/config/local/ldap.php`.

7. Run `php artisan migrate:install --env=local` to setup the migtations table. Then run `php artisan migrate --env=local` to run all the migrations to setup your database.

8. Run `php artisan setinitialuser <your username> --env=local` to setup the hyperadmininistrator (the user with all access on the application - a.k.a The Big Cheese). This user must correspond to a valid LDAP user if you are using LDAP.

9. Point a web server at the `public/` folder. If the domain you have aliased locally is not like 'localhost' or '*.dev' then Laravel will not be able to work out that you are running in the local environment and it will throw an exception on every page. If you want to use something other than these, add your environment to the array at `'local' =>` on line 25 of `./paths.php` at the root of this repository. 

10. Point a browser to the URL of the Programmes Plant!

## Seeding the data

We have provided some data seeds to allow you to get going with some sample data, particularly for programme data.

To run all the seeds type `php artisan seed --env=local`.

## Testing

Unit tests are written in PHPUnit. To run the tests run `php artisan test`. The tests use an in memory SQLite database to make them significantly faster.

## API

The JSON API exposes data endpoints that can be consumed for external application. Here is a brief summary of the endpoints available. These endpoints should be prefixed with the application's base url. A more thorough list can be found in the [routes.php](application/routes.php) file.

Programmes indexes:
	/api/([0-9]{4}|current)/(undergraduate|postgraduate|all)
	/api/([0-9]{4}|current)/(undergraduate|postgraduate|all)/programmes

Programmes
	/api/([0-9]{4}|current)/(undergraduate|postgraduate)/programmes/(:num)

Subjects
	/api/([0-9]{4}|current)/(undergraduate|postgraduate)/subjects

Profiles indexes
	/api/profiles'
	/api/(undergraduate|postgraduate)/profiles'

Profiles
	/api/(undergraduate|postgraduate)/profile/(:any).(json|xml|csv)'
	/api/(undergraduate|postgraduate)/profile/(:any)



## Other Projects

Want to consume the data from a Programmes Plant API? Consider using our [PHP library for this](https://github.com/unikent/of-course).

Want to see what a front-end to this data might look like using this library? See [Of Course](https://github.com/unikent/of-course).

## Course data from SITS

The task file `sitsimport.php` can be run manually on the server, but is set up to run as a cron every night at 4am (under user fm200). The task reads a SITS export XML file sitting in our shared `/data` folder. The task then reads in data from the file and creates entries in the current year of UG (in the programme and programme_revisions) and PG (in deliveries). The data imported is IPO, POS code, MCR code, ARI code, description, award, and full-time/part-time.

The IPO, MCR, and ARI codes are used to direct users to the appropriate course in SITS when the click the 'apply', 'enquire', or 'order prospectus' links on a course page.

## Licensing

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

Commit message:

Add note on what to do if PHPUnit is not in your path

readme.md, after:

# Programmes Plant

The Programmes Plant is part of the [XCRI-CAP project](http://www.kent.ac.uk/is/projects/xcri/) at the University of Kent, and is a replacement for the existing Programmes Factory.

It is written in [Laravel3](http://three.laravel.com/) and using [Twitter Bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/).

![Programmes plant homepage screenshot](https://raw.github.com/unikent/programmes-plant/master/screenshot.jpg "Programmes plant homepage screenshot")

## Usage
Please refer to the current [brand guidelines](https://www.kent.ac.uk/brand) for use of the existing brand.

## Build Status

[![Build Status - master](https://travis-ci.org/unikent/programmes-plant.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/unikent/programmes-plant) `master` 

[![Build Status - develop](https://travis-ci.org/unikent/programmes-plant.png?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/unikent/programmes-plant) `develop`

## Development Setup

The following are instructions on running the Programmes Plant on a local machine for development.

### Method 1

Install this in one line? Why of course! Should work on any sensible Unix like system with Git installed.

```shell
curl -s https://raw.github.com/unikent/programmes-plant/setup/setup.sh > temp.sh && sh temp.sh && rm temp.sh
```

### Method 2

1. Clone this repository. Change into the directory.

2. Obtain Laravel as a submodule by running `git submodule init` then `git submodule update`, unless you have done a recursive clone. Note that this app uses the [University of Kent Laravel fork](https://github.com/unikent/laravel.git), because this contains important performance enhancements as yet not pulled into the Laravel core. This fork is generally kept up to date with the Laravel master branch, so including it as a submodule should give you the latest version of Laravel. We also use the [Verify Laravel bundle](https://github.com/Toddish/Verify) as a sub-module but maintain our own fork.

3. Install [Composer](http://getcomposer.org/) and run `composer.phar install --dev` to install dependencies.

4. You need to setup the application by editing all the sample files in `config/` and moving them to `config/local/` filling in as appropriate. To move the files in one command, run:
```shell
mkdir application/config/local && cp application/config/*.sample application/config/local && ls application/config/local/*.sample | while read file; do mv $file  `echo $file | sed s/.sample//`; done
```

5. You will need to create a MySQL database. Create this database and add the credentials to `application/config/local/database.php`.

6. The application requires an authentication driver to be used. The details of this can be setup in `application/config/local/auth.php`. We use our own LDAP Verify driver. If you decide to use our bundled LDAP Verify driver, the server settings can go in `application/config/local/ldap.php`.

7. Run `php artisan migrate:install --env=local` to setup the migtations table. Then run `php artisan migrate --env=local` to run all the migrations to setup your database.

8. Run `php artisan setinitialuser <your username> --env=local` to setup the hyperadmininistrator (the user with all access on the application - a.k.a The Big Cheese). This user must correspond to a valid LDAP user if you are using LDAP.

9. Point a web server at the `public/` folder. If the domain you have aliased locally is not like 'localhost' or '*.dev' then Laravel will not be able to work out that you are running in the local environment and it will throw an exception on every page. If you want to use something other than these, add your environment to the array at `'local' =>` on line 25 of `./paths.php` at the root of this repository. 

10. Point a browser to the URL of the Programmes Plant!

## Seeding the data

We have provided some data seeds to allow you to get going with some sample data, particularly for programme data.

To run all the seeds type `php artisan seed --env=local`.

## Testing

Unit tests are written in PHPUnit. To run the tests run `php artisan test`. The tests use an in memory SQLite database to make them significantly faster.

If PHPUnit is not in your path then add it by `export PATH=$PATH:`pwd`/bin` from the programmes-plant directory.

## API

The JSON API exposes data endpoints that can be consumed for external application. Here is a brief summary of the endpoints available. These endpoints should be prefixed with the application's base url. A more thorough list can be found in the [routes.php](application/routes.php) file.

Programmes indexes:
	/api/([0-9]{4}|current)/(undergraduate|postgraduate|all)
	/api/([0-9]{4}|current)/(undergraduate|postgraduate|all)/programmes

Programmes
	/api/([0-9]{4}|current)/(undergraduate|postgraduate)/programmes/(:num)

Subjects
	/api/([0-9]{4}|current)/(undergraduate|postgraduate)/subjects

Profiles indexes
	/api/profiles'
	/api/(undergraduate|postgraduate)/profiles'

Profiles
	/api/(undergraduate|postgraduate)/profile/(:any).(json|xml|csv)'
	/api/(undergraduate|postgraduate)/profile/(:any)



## Other Projects

Want to consume the data from a Programmes Plant API? Consider using our [PHP library for this](https://github.com/unikent/of-course).

Want to see what a front-end to this data might look like using this library? See [Of Course](https://github.com/unikent/of-course).

## Course data from SITS

The task file `sitsimport.php` can be run manually on the server, but is set up to run as a cron every night at 4am (under user fm200). The task reads a SITS export XML file sitting in our shared `/data` folder. The task then reads in data from the file and creates entries in the current year of UG (in the programme and programme_revisions) and PG (in deliveries). The data imported is IPO, POS code, MCR code, ARI code, description, award, and full-time/part-time.

The IPO, MCR, and ARI codes are used to direct users to the appropriate course in SITS when the click the 'apply', 'enquire', or 'order prospectus' links on a course page.

## Licensing

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
